---
layout: post
title: Using tsocks for Privacy
---

I really hate using public wifi. I hate the fact that just anyone could look at
my network traffic. Call me paranoid, but it's true. This is why I usually use
an ssh tunnel for most of my work while at coffee shops or at an untrusted
place. I do this using

	ssh -N -f -D 8080 my.secure.host

So great, I have a local SOCKS proxy set up at my localhost now, but how do I
use it? Firefox has proxy options, so that's fine. I like a bit more control
over it, so I use [Foxy Proxy][1]. Don't forget when you do this to also
forward your DNS queries through the proxy as well, otherwise a lot of this is
going to be useless. You can do that in firefox with the `about:config` setting
`network.proxy.socks_remote_dns`.

So this did it for me for a while. I turned off my email syncing and went
happily on my way browsing. But then one day I wanted to use `wget` to download
a file and realized that its proxy settings don't work well with SOCKS. I
searched around but didn't really find out if it could work, but stumbled on a
program called `tsocks`.

`tsocks` runs whatever program you give it as an argument, with the addition of
passing any network traffic it wants through a SOCKS proxy of your choosing. It
reads the details of this from its configuration file.  Just set your proxy to
`localhost`, your port to whatever you used, in this case 8080, and make sure
it knows what your local network is with its settings so you can access local
computers too. An example file looks like this:

	local = 192.168.0.0/255.255.0.0
	local = 10.0.0.0/255.0.0.0
	server = 127.0.0.1
	server_type = 5
	server_port = 8080 

And that's it! Now just run a command like wget with it:

	tsocks wget http://my.important/file

And it's done so using your awesome, encrypted proxy. No snooping or packet
modification allowed!


[1]: http://getfoxyproxy.org "Foxy Proxy"
